You are here: [Home](https://github.com/bikalabs/Bika-LIMS/wiki) · Releases life-cycle
***
### Table of Contents
1. [Introduction](#introduction)
2. [Types of Releases](#types-of-releases)
3. [Releases and Branches](#releases-and-branches)
4. [Custom-made features and Pull Requests](#custom-made-features-and-pull-requests)

***

### Introduction

Bika LIMS project developers are committed with [release early, release often (RERO)](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Release_early,_release_often) philosophy in order to get more feedback from the users community and thus increase the quality of the system, both from technically and functional standpoints.

### Types of Releases

#### Minor releases (3.1.x to 3.1.y). Updates

Minor releases are published regularly (ideally every month) and only include bug fixes, small enhancements and test suites as well. Updating to minor releases is safe and might not need further changes or modifications in the Bika LIMS instance. If the instance to be updated has been customized, you might need to review if the changes made gets affected by the update. This can be done by checking the CHANGELOG.txt file published with every release.

#### Major releases (3.x to 3.y). Upgrades

Major releases are published less regularly than minor releases (ideally, every six or nine months). Major releases include new features, enhancements, bug fixes and new test suites as well. Although the Bika LIMS development team is committed to allow back-compatibility and does an effort to generate solid migration scripts, **upgrading to major releases might be risky**. You need to review if the changes, new features or functionalities removal, suit your needs. We highly recommend you to deeply check the CHANGELOG.txt file published with every release. You can also request an access to demo server to see the changes before upgrading your instance. 

Upgrading customized instances is highly critical, so if you are not sure how the new upgrade could affect your Bika LIMS instance, we suggest you to ask to any of the Bika LIMS service providers.

### Releases and Branches

The minor-releases are generated by merging the hotfix/next to master at a given time, so if you've been fixed some bugs, you can freely do a pull request to hotfix/next, including a description of the bug (ideally, the jira's issue ID is enough) and the output of the bika.lims robottests.

Major-releases are generated by merging the develop branch to master at a given time, so if you want to code new features and add them to the public repos, you have to do a pull request to develop branch. Like pull requests to hotfix/next branch, you have to include a description of the bug (JIRA's issue ID) and the output of the bika.lims robottests.

### Custom-made features and Pull Requests

If you are developing new features for your instance and you want them to be included in the releases life-cycle, the best approach is to fork your own branch from bikalabs/Bika-LIMS' hotfix/next. In that forked branch you can add your own features/enhancements, so you'll have the features in your instance before the official release. Thereafter, you can do a pull request to the official develop branch and we'll evaluate if fits well with the branch under development. If your pull request is accepted, your features will be published in the next major release.
